Updates Consistency05 specification (#1523)
dotse/zonemaster: docs/public/specifications/tests/Consistency-TP/consistency05.md

authoritative data.

This test case will test the following:

* The the [referral] (delegation) is identical on all parent name servers.
* That the [referral] (delegation) contains at least one [glue record] for each
  [in-domain] name server name.
* That each [glue record] matches an authoritative [address record] with the
  same IP address:
  * In the *Child Zone* if the [glue record] is [in-domain].
  * In another zone if the [glue record] is [out-of-zone].
* If the *Child Zone* contains additional [address records][address record]
  with the same name as the glue record, but different IP address.

## Scope

It is assumed that *Child Zone* is tested and reported by [Connectivity01]. This
test case will just ignore non-responsive name servers or name servers not giving
a correct DNS response for an authoritative name server. However, if there is no
working name sever for *Child Zone* then this test case will report that.

## Inputs

* "Child Zone" - The name of the zone to be tested. It must be a [valid domain name].
* "Undelegated Data" - Optional data. If included it must consist of a set of
  at least one [valid name server name] and for each name server name an optional

>   set of at least one [valid IP address].

Reviewer: If it’s an optional set of at least one, we might as well just say that it’s a set of zero or more:

```suggestion
  at least one [valid name server name] and for each name server name a set of zero or
  more [valid IP addresses][valid IP address].
```

| CS05_CHILD_ZONE_LAME           | CRITICAL | ns_list                                   | There is no working name server for the child zone. Tested name servers are "{ns_list}".                                                               |
| CS05_DELEGATION                | INFO     | ns_deleg_list, ns_list                    | Delegation of the child zone as provided by the parent name servers listed: "{ns_deleg_list}". Parent name servers: "{ns_list}".                       |
| CS05_EXTRA_ADDR_CHILD          | NOTICE   | ns_list                                   | There is one or more extra address records found in the child zone that are not present as glue in the delegation: "{ns_list}".                        |
| CS05_NO_MISMATCH_GLUE_ZONE     | INFO     |                                           | There is no mismatch between delegation from parent and authoritative data in the child zone.                                                          |

> | CS05_ID_ADDR_MISMATCH          | ERROR    | nsname, ns_ip_list_glue, ns_ip_list_zone  | For name server {nsname} the glue record in the delegation "{ns_ip_list_glue}" mismatches the address record in the child zone "{ns_ip_list_zone}".    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CS05_ID_ADDR_MISMATCH          | ERROR    | nsname, ns_ip_list_glue, ns_ip_list_zone  | For name server {nsname} the glue record in the delegation "{ns_ip_list_glue}" is different from the address record in the child zone "{ns_ip_list_zone}".    |
```

| CS05_INCONSISTENT_DELEGATION   | WARNING  |                                           | The delegation is inconsistent between the parent nameservers.                                                                                         |
| CS05_MISSING_GLUE_FOR_NS       | WARNING  | nsname, ns_list                           | Expected glue record for {nsname} is missing in the delegation. Found in the parent name servers "{ns_list}".                                          |
| CS05_MISSING_GLUE_FOR_NS_UNDEL | WARNING  | nsname                                    | IP address (glue record) is expected but missing for {nsname} in the undelegated data.                                                                 |
| CS05_NO_NS_ADDR_CHILD          | CRITICAL |                                           | Child zone cannot be tested since there are no name server IP addresses for that zone.                                                                 |

> | CS05_OOD_ADDR_MISMATCH         | WARNING  | nsname, ns_ip_list_ref, ns_ip_list_lookup | For name server {nsname} the glue record in the delegation "{ns_ip_list_glue}" mismatches the address record in authoritativ zone "{ns_ip_list_zone}". |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| CS05_OOD_ADDR_MISMATCH         | WARNING  | nsname, ns_ip_list_ref, ns_ip_list_lookup | For name server {nsname} the glue record in the delegation "{ns_ip_list_glue}" is different from the address record in the child zone "{ns_ip_list_zone}". |
```

The value in the Level column is the default severity level of the message. The
severity level can be changed in the [Zonemaster-Engine profile]. Also see the
[Severity Level Definitions] document.

The argument names in the Arguments column lists the arguments used in the
message. The argument names are defined in the [argument list].

The name server names are assumed to be available at the time when the msgid
is created, if the argument name is "ns" or "ns_list" even when in the
"[Test procedure]" below it is only referred to the IP address of the name
servers.

## Test procedure

In this section and unless otherwise specified below, the terms "[DNS Query]"
follow the specification for DNS queries as specified in
[DNS Query and Response Defaults]. The handling of the DNS responses on the DNS
queries follow, unless otherwise specified below, what is specified for
[DNS Response] in the same specification.

1.  Create the following sets from fetched or derived data:

>     1. Fetch the parent name servers with IP addresses using method
>        [Get-Parent-NS-Names-and-IPs] ("Parent NS").
>     2. Fetch the parent name server IPs using method [Get-Parent-NS-IPs]
>        ("Parent NS IPs").

Reviewer: It’s a bit awkward that we say that we should do this work, only to clear those sets if undelegated data was provided as input. How about:

```suggestion
    1. "Parent NS": if the *Undelegated Data* set (from input) is empty, then populate
       this set by fetching the parent name servers with IP addresses using method
       [Get-Parent-NS-Names-and-IPs]; otherwise, this set is empty.
    2. "Parent NS IPs": if the *Undelegated Data* set (from input) is empty, then populate
       this set by fetching the parent name server IPs using method [Get-Parent-NS-IPs];
       otherwise, this set is empty.
```

And then, step 2 can be removed.

Author: The way I have written it is the way I written it in several places. I think it is better to keep as it is.

Author: Step 2 is just information.

Author: > It’s a bit awkward that we say that we should do this work, only to clear those sets if undelegated data was provided as input.

That is maybe a misunderstanding. If undelegated data has been provided MethodsV2 will return empty sets on `Get-Parent-NS-Names-and-IPs` and `Get-Parent-NS-IPs` so in step 2 nothing is changed. That is just informational.

Reviewer: Oh I see. Let me come up with a different suggestion, then.

2.  If the *Undelegated Data* set (from input) is non-empty then the
    *Parent NS* and *Parent NS IPs* sets are empty.
   
3.  Create [DNS Queries][DNS Query]:

    1. Query type SOA and query name *Child Zone* ("SOA Query").
    2. Query type NS and query name *Child Zone* ("NS Query").

4.  Create the following empty sets:

    1.  IP address (parent) and a sorted list of name server name or name/IP
        pairs ("Delegation").
    2.  IP address (child) and set of name server names ("Child Zone NS").
    3.  NS name and IP address(es) ("Delegation ID NS").
    4.  NS name and IP address(es) ("Delegation OOD NS").
    5.  IP address (parent) and NS name ("Missing Glue").
    6.  IP address (child), name server name and list of IP addresses (if any)
        ("Auth Addr Records In Child").

5.  If the *Parent NS IPs* is non-empty, then for each name server IP in the set
    do:

    1. [Send] *SOA Query* over UDP to the name server IP and fetch the response
       (if any).
    3. If the response (if any) contains a [Referral] of *Child Zone* then do:
       1. Extract the name server names from delegation NS records in authority
          section.

>        2. Downcase any uppcase letters in the names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       2. Downcase any uppercase letters in the names.
```

       3. Create an sorted list of unique name server names (sorted ascendingly

>           on the name).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       3. Create a sorted list of unique name server names (sorted in ascending order
          on the name).
```

       4. For each [glue record] in the additional section (if any) do:
          1. Extract IP address from the [glue record] and attach it to the
             correct name server name in the name server list to form a

>              name/IP pair.

Reviewer: It’s unclear how to “attach [the IP address] to the correct name server name in the name server list”.

Can’t we just form a name/IP pair by extracting the resource record’s owner name and the IP address in the resource record’s RDATA?

Author: I do not understand. We can have one NS record and several address records.

Reviewer: Yes but each of the address records have an owner name, right? That’s how you “attach” the address record to the name server name in the authority section.

          2. If the name already has an IP address attached to it, then copy the

>              name and create a new name/IP pair.

Reviewer: Assuming the pair is constructed from the RR’s owner name and RDATA, what’s the point of this step?

Author: I will look at it again.

Author: I have rephrased it.

          3. Only unique name/IP pairs are created.
          4. Sort the name/IP pair with IPv4 first and then sorted ascendingly on

>              the IP address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          4. Sort the name/IP pair by IP address, in ascending order, with IPv4
             addresses sorted before IPv6 addresses.
```

       5. Add the name server IP and the created name server list to the

>           *Delegation* set.

Reviewer: For a while I didn’t understand this step, but after thinking a bit, I understand that we’re adding the following pair to the *Delegation* set:

 * the name server IP of the server to which we sent the NS query;
 * and the list we built in step 5.3.4.

Therefore, how about:

```suggestion
       5. Add the pair consisting of the parent name server IP (to which the NS query
          was sent) and the name server list created in the previous step to the
          *Delegation* set.
```

Author: Yes, the name server IP to which we sent the SOA query. I will look at it again.

Author: I have rephrased it.

6.  If the *Undelegated Data* set is non-empty then the *Delegation* set is

>     empty.

Reviewer: If the *Undelegated Data* set is non-empty, then we know that *Parent NS IPs* is empty, and therefore we skip step 5 where we populate the *Delegation* set, so this step is unnecessary.

Author: It is just informational when you follow the procedure "by hand".

Reviewer: In that case, how about turning it into a note, like so?
```suggestion
    *Note*: If the *Undelegated Data* set is non-empty then the *Delegation*
    set is empty.
```

7.  If the *Delegation* set is non-empty, then for each parent name server IP in
    the set do:
    1. For each element (name or name/IP pair) in the set do:
       1. If the name in the element is [In-Domain] then do:
          1. If element is a name and not a name/IP pair then add the name server
             IP address and the name to the *Missing Glue* set.
          2. Add the element (name or name/IP pair) to the *Delegation ID NS*
             set. 
             1. Do not create duplicates in the set.
             2. Elements just consiting of a name is not added if there already
                is a name/IP pair with the same name.
             3. A name/IP pair will overwrite an element consisting just of of

>                 the same name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             3. A name/IP pair will overwrite an element consisting just of
                the same name.
```

       2. If name in the element (name or name/IP pair) is [Out-Of-Domain] then
          add the element (name or name/IP pair) to the *Delegation OOD NS* set. 
          1. Do not create duplicates in the set.
          2. Elements just consiting of a name is not added if there already is a
             name/IP pair with the same name.
          3. A name/IP pair will overwrite an element consisting just of of the

>              same name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          3. A name/IP pair will overwrite an element consisting just of the
             same name.
```

8. If the *Delegation* set is non-empty, do:
   1. Compare the name server lists (of names or name/IP pairs) between all
      parent name server IPs.
   2. If not all name server lists are equal then do:
      1. For each found name server list output *[CS05_DELEGATION]* with the name
      server list and the list of parent name server IPs from which the list
      came.
      2. Output *[CS05_INCONSISTENT_DELEGATION]*.

9.  If the *Undelegated Data* set is non-empty then do for each name server name

>     in the set do:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9.  If the *Undelegated Data* set is non-empty then for each name server name
    in the set do:
```

# CONSISTENCY05: Consistency between delegation and zone data

## Test case identifier
**CONSISTENCY05**

## Table of contents

* [Objective](#objective)
* [Scope](#scope)
* [Inputs](#inputs)
* [Summary](#summary)
* [Test procedure](#test-procedure)
* [Outcome(s)](#outcomes)
* [Special procedural requirements](#special-procedural-requirements)
* [Intercase dependencies](#intercase-dependencies)
* [Terminology](#terminology)

## Objective

The delegation of the *Child Zone* may contain so called
[glue records][glue record]. On the wire, any [glue records][glue record] are
found in the [referral] sent from the name servers of the parent zone.

If the name server name in the NS record is [in-domain] there must be at least
one [glue record] in the delegation and in the [referral]. For each such glue
record the equivalent [address record] must exist as an athoritative record in
the child zone, or below, and the the two (glue record and authoritative record)

> must have the same [IP address].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the name server name in the NS record is [in-domain] there must be at least
one [glue record] in the delegation and in the [referral]. For each such glue
record the equivalent [address record] must exist as an authoritative record in
the child zone, or below, and both records must have the same [IP address].
```

The other alternative is that the name server name is [Out-Of-Domain], and in
that case there can be a [glue record], and it must also match an address
record with the same IP address in the authoritative zone. In this case that
authoritative zone is not the *Child Zone* since the name is [Out-Of-Domain].

It is an IANA [name server requirement] that [glue records][glue record] matches
authoritative data.

This test case will test the following:

* The the [referral] (delegation) is identical on all parent name servers.
* That the [referral] (delegation) contains at least one [glue record] for each
  [in-domain] name server name.
* That each [glue record] matches an authoritative [address record] with the
  same IP address:
  * In the *Child Zone* if the [glue record] is [in-domain].
  * In another zone if the [glue record] is [out-of-domain].
* If the *Child Zone* contains additional [address records][address record]

>   with the same name as the glue record, but different IP addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [referral] (delegation) is identical on all parent name servers.
* That the [referral] (delegation) contains at least one [glue record] for each
  [in-domain] name server name.
* That each [glue record] matches an authoritative [address record] with the
  same IP address:
  * In the *Child Zone* if the [glue record] is [in-domain].
  * In another zone if the [glue record] is [out-of-domain].
* If the *Child Zone* contains additional [address records][address record]
  with the same name as the glue record, but different IP addresses.
```

## Scope

It is assumed that *Child Zone* is tested and reported by [Connectivity01]. This
test case will just ignore non-responsive name servers or name servers not giving
a correct DNS response for an authoritative name server. However, if there is no

> working name sever for *Child Zone* then this test case will report that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
working name server for *Child Zone* then this test case will report that.
```

       3. Create a sorted list of unique name server names (sorted in ascending order
          on the name).
       4. For each [glue record] in the additional section (if any) do:
          1. Form an name/IP pair from the owner named and the IP address in
             [RDATA].
          2. Only unique name/IP pairs are created.
          3. Add the pair to sorted list of name server names.
          4. Sort the name/IP pair by IP address, in ascending order, with IPv4
             addresses sorted before IPv6 addresses.
          5. The name/IP pair will replace any "name" where the name server name
             is the same.
       5. Add the name server IP (to which the *SOA Query* was sent) and the name
          server list created above to the *Delegation* set.

    *Note:* If the *Undelegated Data* set is non-empty then the
    *Delegation* set is empty.

5.  If the *Delegation* set is non-empty, then for each parent name server IP in
    the set do:
    1. For each element (name or name/IP pair) in the set do:
       1. If the name in the element is [In-Domain] then do:
          1. If element is a name and not a name/IP pair then add the name server

>              IP address and the name to the *Missing Glue* set.

Reviewer: Do I understand this right?
```suggestion
          1. If element is a name and not a name/IP pair then add the parent name
             server IP address and the name to the *Missing Glue* set.
```

             set.
             1. Do not create duplicates in the set.
             2. Elements just consiting of a name is not added if there already
                is a name/IP pair with the same name.
             3. A name/IP pair will overwrite an element consisting just of
                the same name.
       2. If name in the element (name or name/IP pair) is [Out-Of-Domain] then
          add the element (name or name/IP pair) to the *Delegation OOD NS* set.
          1. Do not create duplicates in the set.
          2. Elements just consiting of a name is not added if there already is a
             name/IP pair with the same name.
          3. A name/IP pair will overwrite an element consisting just of the
             same name.

6. If the *Delegation* set is non-empty, do:
   1. Compare the name server lists (of names or name/IP pairs) between all
      parent name server IPs.
   2. If not all name server lists are equal then do:
      1. For each found name server list output *[CS05_DELEGATION]* with the name
      server list and the list of parent name server IPs from which the list
      came.
      2. Output *[CS05_INCONSISTENT_DELEGATION]*.

> 7.  If the *Undelegated Data* set is non-empty then for each name server name

Reviewer: Steps 7 and 8 are tricky when the zone being tested is the root zone. Right now, Zonemaster-Engine calls `Zonemaster::Engine::Recursor->add_fake_addresses( '.', … )` when loading the root hints, and when processing the undelegated data. Which means that there is no way to differentiate a test of the root zone that uses a regular hint file, and a test of the root zone with some undelegated data overriding the root name servers.

I understand that there is a need to have a special case for the root zone, but we should maybe assume that in this case, the *Undelegated Data* set is always non-empty. After all, the addresses of the root servers has to come from some non-DNS data, whatever happens.

Author: The root zone is tricky. Back in time I suggested that Zonemaster should refuse to test the root zone at all. That would have saved the methods and many test cases from special cases that are of questionable value.

But in this case I think it is fine that undelegated data overwrites the hint information. I think that is the purpose.

    in the set do:
    1. If the name server name is [In-Domain] then do:
       1. If no glue (address) data is present for the name server name, then
          output *[CS05_MISSING_GLUE_FOR_NS_UNDEL]* with the name server name.
       2. Else, add the name server name with IP addresses as one or several
          name/IP pairs to *Delegation ID NS* set.
    2. Else (the name server name is [Out-Of-Domain]) then do:
       1. If there is no IP address for that name, add the name to the
          *Delegation OOD NS* set.
       2. Else, add the name and IP address or addresses as name/IP pairs to the
          *Delegation OOD NS* set.

8. If *Child Zone* is the root zone (".") and the *Undelegated Data* set is

>     empty, then do:

Reviewer: Considering my previous comment, this step will never be executed because the root zone always has some undelegated data.

Author: If you run this by hand it will make a difference. I will update so that step 7 excludes the root and step 8 is for root only, with or without undelegated data.

    1. Fetch the root hint information using method [Get-Del-NS-Names-and-IPs]
       ("Hint NS").
    2. The information in *Hint NS* is assumed to be as single name server names
       ("name") or as name/IP pairs.
    3. The hint information is always [In-Domain] by definition.
    4. For each element (name or name/IP pair) in the *Hint NS* set do:
       1. If element is a name and not a name/IP pair then add the name server

>           IP address and the name to the *Missing Glue* set.

Reviewer: I don’t understand. The element is a plain name, so whose IP address are we using to add an (IP, name) pair to the *Missing Glue* set?

Author: Copy-and-paste error. I will fix.

       2. Add the element (name or name/IP pair) to the *Delegation ID NS* set.
          1. Do not create duplicates in the set.
          2. Elements just consiting of a name is not added if there already is a
             name/IP pair with the same name.
          3. A name/IP pair will overwrite an element consisting just of of the
             same name.

9. If the *Missing Glue* set is non-empty, then for each name server name output
    *[CS05_MISSING_GLUE_FOR_NS]* with the name server name and the list of parent
    IP addresses.

10. If *Child NS IP* is empty then output *[CS05_NO_NS_ADDR_CHILD]* and exit
    these test procedures.

11. For each name server IP in *Child NS IPs* do:

    1. [Send] *NS Query* over UDP to the name server IP and fetch the response
       (if any).
    2. If the response (if any) contains the following add the name server
       IP and the name server names extracted from the NS RRset to the

>        *Child Zone NS* set:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. If the response (if any) meets all of the following criteria, add the name server
       IP and the name server names extracted from the NS RRset to the
       *Child Zone NS* set:
```

       * An NS RRset of *Child Zone* in the answer section.
       * An [RCODE Name] of "NoError".
       * The AA flag is set.
    3. Else, go to the next name server IP.
    4. Create a unique set of [In-Domain] name server names:

>        1. Extract the [In-Domain] NS name server namns from the NS RRset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       1. Extract the [In-Domain] NS name server names from the NS RRset
```

          extracted above.
       2. Extract the name server names from *Delegation ID NS*.
    5. For each [In-Domain] name server name do:
       1.  Create a [DNS Query] with query type A and query name the NS name
           server name ("A Query").
       2.  [Send] *A Query* over UDP to the name server IP and fetch the
           response (if any).
       3.  If the response (if any) contains a [Referral] covering the NS name
           server name then repeat *A Query* (recursively, if needed) to the
           name servers in the referral until an A RRset is returned or the
           querying is stopped by e.g. NXDOMAIN or no response.

>            1. If an A RRset is return, then use it in next step as if was a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           1. If an A RRset is returned, then use it in the next step as if was a
```

              response on the first query.
       4.  If any query was not responded to or returned an [RCODE Name] not
           being "NoError" then go to next NS name server name.
       5.  If the response (if any) contains the following then for each
           unique A record extract owner name and IP address in [RDATA], create

>            a name/IP pair and add that to the *Auth Addr Records In Child* set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       5.  If the response (if any) meets all of the the following criteria, then for each
           unique A record extract owner name and IP address in [RDATA], create
           a name/IP pair and add that to the *Auth Addr Records In Child* set.
```

>        5.  If the response (if any) meets all of the the following criteria, then for each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       5.  If the response (if any) meets all of the following criteria, then for each
```

           * An A RRset in the answer section where owner name matches the
             original query name.
           * An [RCODE Name] of "NoError".
           * The AA flag is set.
       6.  Create a [DNS Query] with query type AAAA and query name the NS
           name server name ("AAAA Query").
       7.  [Send] *A Query* over UDP to the name server IP and fetch the
           response (if any).
       8.  If the response (if any) contains a [Referral] covering the NS name
           server name then repeat *AAAA Query* as was done with the *A Query*
           above.
       9.  If the response (if any) contains the following then for each
           unique AAAA record extract owner name and IP address in [RDATA],
           create a name/IP pair and add that to the *Auth Addr Records In Child*

>            set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       9.  If the response (if any) meets all of the the following criteria, then for each
           unique AAAA record extract owner name and IP address in [RDATA],
           create a name/IP pair and add that to the *Auth Addr Records In Child*
           set.
```

>        9.  If the response (if any) meets all of the the following criteria, then for each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       9.  If the response (if any) meets all of the following criteria, then for each
```

    the IP addresses from the *Child NS IPs* set and exit these procedures.

13. If the *Delegation ID NS* set is non-empty then for each name server name
    ("NS Name") in the set do:
    1. Extract all name/IP pairs in the set with name *NS Name* ("Parent Glue").
    2. If no name/IP pairs were extracted, then go to next *NS Name* in the set.
    3. Extract all name/IP pairs with name *NS Name* in the
       *Auth Addr Records In Child* ("Child Auth").
    4. If *Child Auth* is empty, then output *[CS05_ID_ADDR_MISSING]* with
       *NS Name*.
    5. Else, if any of the name/IP pairs in *Parent Glue* set are missing in the
       *Child Auth* set then output *[CS05_ID_ADDR_MISMATCH]* with *NS Name*,
       the IP addresses extracted from *Parent Glue* for *NS Name* and the IP
       addresses extracted from *Child Auth* for *NS Name*.
    6. Else, if the *Parent Glue* set is not equal to the *Child Auth* set then
       add name/IP pairs from the *Child Auth* set not present in the
       *Parent Glue* set to the *Extra Address Child* set.

14. If the *Extra Address Child* set is non-empty, then output
    *[CS05_EXTRA_ADDR_CHILD]* with the list of name/IP pairs from the set.

> 15. If the the *Delegation OOD NS* set is non-empty then for each name server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
15. If the *Delegation OOD NS* set is non-empty then for each name server
```

    name in the set do:
    1. Extract all name/IP pairs with that name server name.
    2. Go to next name server name if there are no name/IP pairs for the name.
    3. Do [Address Records Lookup] of the name server name. Ignore any failing
       lookups (such as response with SERVFAIL or no response) or lookups giving
       response with NODATA or NXDOMAIN.
    4. If any IP address is returned from the lookup, then do:
       1. Compare the IP address(es) with the address(es) in the extracted
          name/IP pairs.
       2. If the comparison did not give an exact match, then output
          *[CS05_OOD_ADDR_MISMATCH]* with the name server name, the address(es)

>           from the extracted name/IP pairs and the the addresses from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          from the extracted name/IP pairs and the addresses from the
```

If the name server name in the NS record is [in-domain] there must be at least
one [glue record] in the delegation and in the [referral]. For each such glue
record the equivalent [address record] must exist as an athoritative record in
the child zone, or below, and the the two (glue record and authoritative record)
must have the same [IP address].

The other alternative is that the name server name is [Out-Of-Domain], and in
that case there can be a [glue record], and it must also match an address
record with the same IP address in the authoritative zone. In this case that
authoritative zone is not the *Child Zone* since the name is [Out-Of-Domain].

It is an IANA [name server requirement] that [glue records][glue record] matches
authoritative data.

This test case will test the following:

* The the [referral] (delegation) is identical on all parent name servers.
* That the [referral] (delegation) contains at least one [glue record] for each
  [in-domain] name server name.
* That each [glue record] matches an authoritative [address record] with the
  same IP address:
  * In the *Child Zone* if the [glue record] is [in-domain].

>   * In another zone if the [glue record] is [out-of-zone].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * In another zone if the [glue record] is [out-of-domain].
```

message. The argument names are defined in the [argument list].

The name server names are assumed to be available at the time when the msgid
is created, if the argument name is "ns" or "ns_list" even when in the
"[Test procedure]" below it is only referred to the IP address of the name
servers.

## Test procedure

In this section and unless otherwise specified below, the terms "[DNS Query]"
follow the specification for DNS queries as specified in
[DNS Query and Response Defaults]. The handling of the DNS responses on the DNS
queries follow, unless otherwise specified below, what is specified for
[DNS Response] in the same specification.

1.  Create the following sets from fetched or derived data:

    1. Fetch the parent name servers with IP addresses using method
       [Get-Parent-NS-Names-and-IPs] ("Parent NS").
    2. Fetch the parent name server IPs using method [Get-Parent-NS-IPs]
       ("Parent NS IPs").
    3. Fetch the child name server IPs using methods [Get-Del-NS-IPs] and
       [Get-Zone-NS-IPs] and create a unique set ("Child NS IPs").

2.  If the *Undelegated Data* set (from input) is non-empty then the

>     *Parent NS* and *Parent NS IPs* sets are empty.

Reviewer: Okay, so this “step” is informational; that’s fine. But it does bother me that there’s a numbered item that, in practice, doesn’t specify anything by itself. How about turning it into a note, like so?

```suggestion
    **Note**: If the *Undelegated Data* set (from input) is non-empty then the
    aforementioned methods return an empty set, and therefore the *Parent NS*
    and *Parent NS IPs* sets are empty.
```

If indented exactly this way, it’ll render exactly as intended, both on both GitHub itself and in the mdbook version: _i.e._ it will not break the list and the next step will be numbered 2, as it should. And in Emacs’s `markdown-mode`, `markdown-cleanup-list-numbers` (`C-c C-c n`) will renumber the list items appropriately.

Author: I have followed your proposal, which is a good idea.

  neither on or below the zone cut of the zone for which it is name server.
  The name server name belongs to another zone. It is above or at aside the
  delegated zone. Previously the term "Out-Of-Bailiwick" was used.

* "Referral" - The term means a DNS response with [RCODE Name] NoError, AA flag
  unset and NS records in the authority section. It is used to signal a
  delegation.
  * The answer section is empty or with CNAME record or records. If the query
    type is CNAME, then the answer section must be empty.
  * The additional section may contain address (glue) records (A and AAAA) for
    the name server names from the RDATA of the NS records.
  * The referral refers the zone identical to the owner name of the NS records
    to the name servers specified by the RDATA in the NS records.

* "Send" - The terms are used when a DNS query is sent to a specific name server
  (name server IP address).

* "Valid Domain Name" -- The term stands for a non-empty domain name string that
  has successfully passed the tests and normalizations in the
  [Requirements and normalization] specification.

* "Valid IP Address" -- The term stands for either an [IPv4] address or an [IPv6]

>   address in any address range.

Reviewer: This term implies that we deem some IP addresses invalid, but in practice we don’t. As far as I can tell, we’d allow 0.0.0.0 and :: as “valid” IP addresses. How about just “IP address” instead of “valid IP address”?

Author: I copied it from MethodsV2 specification. When you read what it says in the terminology section it clearly says that any IP address is accepted so I do not see how you read it.

Reviewer: Come to think of it, A and AAAA records’ RDATA could indeed be malformed… so I could also read “valid IP addresses” as only keeping address records with well-formed RDATA.

## Terminology

* "Address Record" - The term is used for a DNS record of type A or AAAA. The
  term is used as defined in [RFC 9499][RFC 9499#section5], section 5.

* "Address Records Lookup" - The term is used when two [DNS Lookups][DNS Lookup]
  are done and the query types are A and AAAA, respectively.

* "DNS Lookup" - The term is used when a recursive lookup is used, though any
  changes to the DNS tree introduced by an [undelegated test] must be respected.

* "DNS Response" - The term is used when the DNS response is to be handled as
  defined in [DNS Query and Response Defaults][DNS Response].

* "DNS Query" - The term is used for a DNS query that is to follow the
  specification for DNS queries in [DNS Query and Response Defaults][DNS Query].

* "Glue Record" - [Address records][address record] in the [Referral]

>   whose owner name is equal to the [RDATA] in one of the NS record in the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  whose owner name is equal to the [RDATA] in one of the NS records in the same
```

## Terminology

* "Address Record" - The term is used for a DNS record of type A or AAAA. The

>   term is used as defined in [RFC 9499][[RFC 9499#section5]], section 5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  term is used as defined in [RFC 9499][RFC 9499#section5], section 5.
```

Author: Fixed in a recent commit.

  section 3.6.

* "Referral" - The term means a DNS response with [RCODE Name] NoError, AA flag
  unset and NS records in the authority section. It is used to signal a
  delegation.
  * The answer section is empty or with CNAME record or records. If the query
    type is CNAME, then the answer section must be empty.
  * The additional section may contain address (glue) records (A and AAAA) for
    the name server names from the [RDATA] of the NS records.
  * The referral refers the zone identical to the owner name of the NS records
    to the name servers specified by the [RDATA] in the NS records.

* "Send" - The terms are used when a DNS query is sent to a specific name server
  (name server IP address).

* "Valid Domain Name" -- The term stands for a non-empty domain name string that
  has successfully passed the tests and normalizations in the
  [Requirements and normalization] specification.

* "IP Address" -- In this document the term stands for either an [IPv4] address or
  an [IPv6] address in any address range.

* "Valid Name Server Name" -- The term stands for a [Valid Domain Name] that
  functions as the name of a name server.

> [Address Record]:                          #terminology

Reviewer: Adding a missing link:
```suggestion
[Address Record]:                          #terminology
[Address Records Lookup]:                  #terminology
```

[Argument list]:                           ../ArgumentsForTestCaseMessages.md
[CRITICAL]:                                ../SeverityLevelDefinitions.md#critical
[CS05_CHILD_ZONE_LAME]:                    #summary
[CS05_DELEGATION]:                         #summary
[CS05_EXTRA_ADDR_CHILD]:                   #summary
[CS05_ID_ADDR_MISMATCH]:                   #summary
[CS05_ID_ADDR_MISSING]:                    #summary
[CS05_INCONSISTENT_DELEGATION]:            #summary
[CS05_MISSING_GLUE_FOR_NS]:                #summary
[CS05_MISSING_GLUE_FOR_NS_UNDEL]:          #summary
[CS05_NO_MISMATCH_GLUE_ZONE]:              #summary
[CS05_NO_NS_ADDR_CHILD]:                   #summary

> [CS05_OOD_ADDR_MISMATCH]:                  #summary
> [Connectivity01]:                          ../Connectivity-TP/connectivity01.md
> [DNS Query and Response Defaults]:         ../DNSQueryAndResponseDefaults.md

Reviewer: Adding another missing link:
```suggestion
[Connectivity01]:                          ../Connectivity-TP/connectivity01.md
[DNS Lookup]:                              #terminology
[DNS Query and Response Defaults]:         ../DNSQueryAndResponseDefaults.md
```

Author: Fixed in a recent commit.

  has successfully passed the tests and normalizations in the
  [Requirements and normalization] specification.

* "IP Address" -- In this document the term stands for either an [IPv4] address or

>   an [IPv6] address in any address range.

Reviewer: mdbook complains about `[IPv4]` and `[IPv6]` being broken links.

Author: Fixed in a recent commit.
